study.md, before:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and answer
the following questions (no prior knowledge is expected).

In your answers, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write answers in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not answer with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [rails-api-template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew | BetterExplained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
-   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers | BetterExplained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
-   [The Rails Command Line — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
-   [Rails Routing from the Outside In — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
-   [Action Controller Overview — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)

## Define Model Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Controller Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## Define Router Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
<!-- your answer here -->
```

Commit message:

Completed Rails API Study
answered the questions and reviewed the material.

study.md, after:

# Rails as an API Study

Use your favorite search engine and the provided readings to research and answer
the following questions (no prior knowledge is expected).

In your answers, be sure to cite any relevant sources you consulted in your
search. We ask you to write answers in your own words in order to see how you
process what you've read. Please do not answer with direct quotes from source
material. Instead, digest what you've read and repeat it in your own voice.

Please note:

-   Many of the readings will mention the "view" layer. We won't be covering the
    view layer in this program.
-   We'll use our [rails-api-template](https://github.com/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template)
    repository as the basis for our rails applications.
    This template excludes the "view" layer.

## Required Readings

-   [Starting Ruby on Rails: What I Wish I Knew | BetterExplained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/starting-ruby-on-rails-what-i-wish-i-knew/)
-   [Intermediate Rails: Understanding Models, Views and Controllers | BetterExplained](http://betterexplained.com/articles/intermediate-rails-understanding-models-views-and-controllers/)
-   [Getting Started with Rails — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
-   [The Rails Command Line — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/command_line.html)
-   [Rails Routing from the Outside In — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html)
-   [Action Controller Overview — Ruby on Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html)

## Define Model Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the model layer are in
Rails.

```md
The model does most of the work in rails. It validates and retrieves all the data
requested.
```

## Define Controller Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the responsibilities of the controller layer are
in Rails.

```md
The controllers handles all of the user requests and asks the model for what it
needs
```

## Define Router Responsiblities

In your own words, define what the router does in Rails.

```md
The router recognizes URL's and sends them to the controller for it to decide the
action
```

## The Request-Response Cycle in Rails

Starting with a client making a GET request to a particular URL, describe how
the parts of Rails interact to produce and send a response.

```md
1. The router gets the information from the URL then passes it to the controller.
2. The controller then figures out what it wants to get and connects to the model.
3. The model finds the information stored and hands it to the controller
4. The controller then returns the info the user
```
